.\" Manpage for mtn.
.\" Contact wahibre@gmx.com to correct errors or typos.

.TH man 1 "Dec 2023" "1.10" "mtn man page"
.SH NAME
mtn \- generate thumbnail grid of a movie file(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
mtn [OPTIONS] FILENAME[, FILENAME, ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mtn saves thumbnails of specified movie files or directories to jpeg files.

.SH OPTIONS
  -a aspect_ratio : override input file's display aspect ratio
  -b 0,80 : skip if % blank is higher; 0:skip all 1:skip really blank >1:off
  -B 0,0 : omit this seconds from the beginning
  -c 3 : # of column
  -C -1 : cut movie and thumbnails not more than the specified seconds; <=0:off
  -d #: recursion depth; 0:immediate children files only
  -D 12 : edge detection; 0:off >0:on; higher detects more; try -D4 -D6 or -D8
  -e : comma separated list of file extensions scaned in directories (e.g. mkv,avi,mp4)
  -E 0,0 : omit this seconds at the end
  -f fontname.ttf : Truetype font file; use absolute path if not in usual places. If you don't have a truetype font, you can turn the text off by using -i -t. 
  -F RRGGBB:size[:font:RRGGBB:RRGGBB:size] : font format [time is optional]
     info_color:info_size[:time_font:time_color:time_shadow:time_size]
  -g 0 : gap between each shot
  -h 150 : minimum height of each shot; will reduce # of column to fit
  -H : filesize only in human readable format (MiB, GiB). Default shows size in bytes too
  -i : info text off
  -I {toi} : save individual shots; t - thumbnail size, o - original size, i - ignore creating thumbnail grid
  -j 90 : jpeg quality
  -k RRGGBB : background color (in hex)
  -L info_location[:time_location] : location of text
     1=lower left, 2=lower right, 3=upper right, 4=upper left
  -n : run at normal priority
  -N info_suffix : save info text to a file with suffix
  -o _s.jpg : output suffix including image extension (.jpg, .png, .webp, .avif)
  -O directory : save output files in the specified directory
  -p : pause before exiting; default on in win32
  -P : don't pause before exiting; override -p
  -q : quiet mode (print only error messages)
  -r 0 : # of rows; >0:override -s
  -s 120 : time step between each shot
  -S #: select specific stream number
  -t : time stamp off
  -T text : add text above output image
  -v : verbose mode (debug)
  -w 1024 : width of output image; 0:column * movie width
  -W : don't overwrite existing files, i.e. update mode
  -x CustomFileName : change output filename to CustomFileName
  -X : use full input filename (include extension)
  -z : always use seek mode
  -Z : always use non-seek mode - slower but more accurate timing (useful for very short movies)
  
.IP --shadow[=N]
draw shadows beneath thumbnails with radius N pixels if N>0. Radius is calculated if N\=0 or N is omitted.

.IP --transparent
set background color (\fI-k\fP) to transparent; works with PNG image only

.IP --cover[=COVER_SUFFIX]
extract album art if exists to the file with suffix COVER_SUFFIX, default _cover.jpg

.IP --vtt[=PATH_PREFIX]
export WebVTT file (.vtt) and sprite chunks (specified by \fI-o\fP) into directory specified by \fI-O\fP. PATH_PREFIX is added to the sprite name in .vtt file. Max size of the output images is controlled by \fI-w\fP switch. Number of shots in sprite chunks is controlled by \fI-c\fP, \fI-r\fP/\fI-s\fP, \fI-h\fP switch.

.IP --options=<OPTION_ENTRIES>
list of options passed to the FFmpeg library. <OPTION_ENTRIES> contains list of options separated by "|". Each option contains name and value separated by ":".

.IP --filters=<FILTER_GRAPH>
Create the filtergraph specified by FILTER_GRAPH and use it to filter the video stream. See the
.BR ffmpeg-filters(1)
manual for more information about the filtergraph syntax.

.IP --filter-color-primaries=<COLOR_PRIMARIES>
Use \fI--filters\fP only on movies with <COLOR_PRIMARIES>. <COLOR_PRIMARIES> is comma-separated list of color primaries (e.g. bt2020).

.IP --tonemap[=<MODE>]
Predefined filtergraphs for tonemapping HDR movies. Implies \fI--filter-color-primaries\fP=bt2020. Default value is 1.
Possible values for <MODE> are
.IP
0: off

.IP
1: Clipping highlights (example from
.BR ffmpeg-filters(1) )
uses filtegraph
    zscale=transfer=linear,tonemap=clip,zscale=transfer=bt709,format=yuv420p

.IP
2: Simple solution. Same as
    \fI--filters\fP=zscale=t=linear,tonemap=tonemap=hable,zscale=p=bt709:t=bt709:m=bt709

.IP
3: Complex solution. Same as
    \fI--filters\fP=zscale=t=linear:npl=100,format=gbrpf32le,zscale=p=bt709,tonemap=tonemap=hable,zscale=t=bt709:m=bt709:r=tv,format=yuv420p

.IP FILENAME
Name of the movie file or directory containing movie files

.SH " "
  You'll probably need to change the truetype font path (\fI-f\fP fontfile).
  the default is set to tahomabd.ttf which might not exist in non-windows
  systems. if you don't have a truetype font, you can turn the text off by
  using \fI-i\fP \fI-t\fP.


.SH EXIT STATUS
  MTN exits  with status 0 if all files are processed successfully, 1 if some shots are missing, 2 on error.

.SH EXAMPLES
  to save thumbnails to file infile_s.jpg with default options:
    mtn infile.avi
  to change time step to 65 seconds & change total width to 900:
    mtn -s 65 -w 900 infile.avi
  to step evenly to get 3 columns x 10 rows:
    mtn -c 3 -r 10 infile.avi
  to save output files to writeable directory:
    mtn -O writeable /read/only/dir/infile.avi
  to get 2 columns in original movie size:
    mtn -c 2 -w 0 infile.avi
  to skip uninteresting shots, try:
    mtn -D 6 infile.avi
  to save only \fI\,i\fRndividual shots and keep \fI\,o\fRriginal size:
    mtn -I io infile.avi
  to draw shadow of the shot, try:
    mtn --shadow=3 -g 7 infile.avi
  to export thumbnails in WebVTT format every 10 seconds and max size of 1920x1920px:
    mtn -s 10 -w 1920 --vtt=/var/www/html/ -O /mnt/fileshare -Ii -o .jpg infile.avi
  to skip warning messages to be printed to console (useful for flv files producing lot of warnings), try:
    mtn -q infile.avi
  to enable additional protocols:
    mtn --options=protocol_whitelist:file,crypto,data,http,https,tcp,tls infile.avi
    
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ffmpeg (1),
.BR ffmpeg-filters (1)

.SH WWW
https://gitlab.com/movie_thumbnailer/mtn/wikis
